Version 2.1.2, November 2014 --Cecile Ane

Name changed to iBPP, to reflect integration of traits and genes.
Analysis can use multiple traits. Model assumes Brownian motion
         for the evolution of species means. Each trait has its
         own phylogenetic signal parameter.
Simulation can output trait data, under various models.


Version 2.1, April 2011

(a) I have changed the specification of the finetune variable to allow
the program to use automatic adjustment.  The old option of using
fixed step lengths is specified by

      finetune = 0: .05 .001 .0003 .0005 .08 .25 0.0002  # finetune for GBtj, GBspr, theta, tau, mix, locusrate, seqerr

while the new option of automatic steplength adjustment is specified
by someething like the following.  The step lengths on the line are
still used as initial values, but bpp will try to use the burn in to
make adjustments.

      finetune = 1: .01 .01 .01 .01 .01 .01 .01 .01  # finetune for GBtj, GBspr, theta, tau, mix, locusrate, seqerr

Look at the document.

(b) A bug that affects the posterior summary of parameters for the MAP
tree is fixed.  With species delimitation, the different species
models have different numbers of parameters.  At the end of the MCMC
run, the program identifies the MAP tree, the species tree model with
the maximum posterior probability, and then copies the samples of
parameters for that model from the MCMC sample file into another
temporary file mcmc.tmp, and summarizes the results for the MAP tree.
I think this was added in version 2.0a or b.  A bug in the program
(versions 2.0, 2.0a, 2.0b) caused the program to count the number of
parameters incorrectly if the last species tree visited during the
MCMC is not the MAP tree.  As a result, no summary is provided for the
MAP tree or 0s are shown for the posterior means, CIs etc. for the MAP
tree.  This bug is now fixed.  Thanks to Chih-Ming Hung for reporting
the bug.

In general, a better way of generating
the posterior of parameters for the MAP tree is to turn off
speciesdelimitation and use the MAP tree as the fixed species tree.
This requires preparing new control and Imap files although there is
no need to change the sequence alignment file.

(c) Restored the option of specifying heredity multipliers (heredity
= 2).  This option was in MCMCcoal but disabled when I changed the
sequence data file format.  In this version the multipliers are
specified in a file.  I have yet to do some testing of this option.




Version 2.0b BP&P November 2010

MCcoal.  The simulation algorithm for simulating data under a model of
migration is found to have bugs.  These are now fixed.




Version 2.0a BP&P August 2010

The definition of the migration matrix in the control file MCcoal.ctl
for the simulation program is now changed.  In version 2.0, Mij = mij/
mu, where mij is the proportion of migrants in population j that are
from population i and is the mutation rate per site per generation.
This scaling by the mutation rate is not so intuitive biologically.
From version 2.0a, Mij = Nj*mij, that is, the expected number of
migrants in population j that are from population i.  This seems to be
more intuitive.





Version 2.0 BP&P, June 2010

Implemented the algorithm of Yang & Rannala (2010) for species delimitation.  

The priors on tau's and theta's are now slightly different from those
used in MCMCcoal.  In bpp, all s in the model are assigned gamma
priors with the same parameters, while in MCMCcoal one has to specify
a gamma prior for each parameter, so the parameters can be different.
In bpp, the root age in the species tree ( 0) is assigned a gamma
prior, while the other node ages are generated from the Dirichlet
distribution (Yang and Rannala, 2010: equation 2).  We suspect that
those differences should not matter much in typical datasets.



Version 1.2 MCMCcoal, July 2007

Added two models of mutation rate variation among loci: one using
fixed locus rates estimated externally, and another of random variable
rates across loci (with a transformed Dirichlet prior).  See Burgess &
Yang (2008).

Added two options for locus-specific heredity multipliers (inheritance
scalars).  The first is for the user to specify the multipliers in the
sequence data file, which will be used in the likelihood calculation
in the MCMC.  The second is to let the program estimate the
multipliers, with a gamma prior.  Those options are not tested
carefully, and the first option is now disabled due to the change of
data format in BP&P2.0.

The definition of species divergence times is changed.  In version 1.1
and earlier, the divergence times may be defined as time gaps (say,
HCGO - HCG, HCG - HC, and HC) or as ages of nodes in the species tree
(say, HCGO, HCG, HC).  This definition affects the prior specification
and the output.  In version 1.2, the parameters are always defined as
node ages, in both prior specification and output.

Added a model of random sequencing errors.  This assumes that some
species have sequencing errors, with a constant per-nucleotide error
rate applied to all sequences for that species.



Version 1.1 MCMCcoal, April 2005


Version 1.0 MCMCcoal, September 2002

This program implements the MCMC coalescent model of Rannala & Yang (2003 Genetics 164:1645-1656).

// end of file
